Pluto, also called Pluto the Pup,[1] is a cartoon character created in 1930 by
Walt Disney Productions. He is a yellow orange-color, medium-sized, short-haired
dog with black ears. Unlike most Disney characters, Pluto is not anthropomorphic
beyond some characteristics such as facial expression, though he did speak for a
short portion of his history.[2] He is Mickey Mouse's pet. Officially a
mixed-breed dog,[3] he made his debut as a bloodhound in the Mickey Mouse
cartoon The Chain Gang.[4] Together with Mickey Mouse, Minnie Mouse, Donald
Duck, Daisy Duck, and Goofy, Pluto is one of the "Sensational Six"—the biggest
stars in the Disney universe.[5] Though all six are non-human animals, Pluto
alone is not dressed as a human.[6]

Pluto debuted in animated cartoons and appeared in 24 Mickey Mouse films before
receiving his own series in 1937. All together Pluto appeared in 89 short films
between 1930 and 1953. Several of these were nominated for an Academy Award,
including The Pointer (1939), Squatter's Rights (1946), Pluto's Blue Note
(1947), and Mickey and the Seal (1948). One of his films, Lend a Paw (1941), won
the award in 1942.[7][8] Because Pluto does not speak, his films generally rely
on physical humor. This made Pluto a pioneering figure in character animation,
which is expressing personality through animation rather than dialogue.[9]

Like all of Pluto's co-stars, the dog has appeared extensively in comics over
the years, first making an appearance in 1931.[10] He returned to theatrical
animation in 1990 with The Prince and the Pauper and has also appeared in
several direct-to-video films. Pluto also appears in the television series
Mickey Mouse Works (1999–2000), House of Mouse (2001–2003), and Mickey Mouse
Clubhouse (2006–2013).

In 1998, Disney's copyright on Pluto, set to expire in several years, was
extended by the passage of the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act. Disney,
along with other studios, lobbied for passage of the act to preserve their
copyrights on characters such as Pluto for 20 additional years.[11]
